---
layout: post
title: Resolved molecular gas in MaNGA PSBs
categories:
- Galaxies
- PSBs
- ALMA
---

## Molecular gas properties of post-starburst galaxies

Post-starburst galaxies (PSBs) have rapidly and recently quenched their star-formation, making them an important evolutionary link for how galaxies transform from blue, star-forming spirals to quiescent early-types. The molecular gas is key to understanding the shut-off of star-formation in these galaxies as it is the fuel for star-formation.

It turns out that PSBs typically have significant molecular gas reservoirs, but only a handful have spatially resolved molecular gas observations that can tell us about the morphology and kinematics: both are key for understanding why these gas reservoirs aren't forming stars.

We have been studying 13 nearby PSBs in the MaNGA survey (an optical integral field spectroscopy survey) with matched-resolution CO(1-0) ALMA observations to try to figure out what the gas is doing in these galaxies and what it might tell us about the quenching mechanisms shutting down star-formation in PSBs.

{% include figure.html image="https://justinotter.github.io/assets/overview_spec_mom0.png" position="left" caption="Our integrated CO spectra and CO contours overlaid on the optical image. The molecular gas is compact!" width="1000" height="2000" %}

{% include figure.html image="https://justinotter.github.io/assets/overview_vmaps.png" position="left" caption="The CO, stellar, and Halpha velocity maps. The gas is highly disturbed!" width="1000" height="2000" %}

Overall, we have found that the compactness of the molecular gas and lack of coherent rotation show these galaxies are highly disturbed. For PSBs quenching globally or in their centers, a major merger could disturb the gas and drive it inwards, leaving a compact reservoir of gas stabilized against star-formation.
For PSBs quenching on the outskirts, the picture is less clear but a minor interaction, stellar bar, or gas stripping could contribute to quenching. 

For more information, check out [my poster from AAS 240,](https://nam02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Faas240-aas.ipostersessions.com%2FDefault.aspx%3Fs%3DAC-B6-F8-7B-C4-EA-AB-CD-F6-77-7E-08-66-B3-46-13&data=05%7C01%7Cjotter2%40jhu.edu%7C8321d2bea82b4eac0a1c08da43cb96df%7C9fa4f438b1e6473b803f86f8aedf0dec%7C0%7C0%7C637896838928279538%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Lb051sUTGFyvBHOMX9hCsxP0ZsFu2Hnn%2FRfJqpdQnYM%3D&reserved=0, "my poster from AAS 240,") and look out for a publication soon.
